---
title: "Enhancing Sound, Music, and Movement Computing with Differentiable DSP"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-06-09-SMC22
venue: "Sound and Music Computing Conference (SMC'22), St. Ethienne, France"
date: 2022-06-09
location: "Online"
---
Impact of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing (DDSP) on the recent work at the [Multisensory Experience Lab](https://melcph.create.aau.dk/) Hints: We can deploy DDSP-based real-time plugins fast because 

1. we started the work about 25 years ago :-) 
2. we are implementing the principles of MLOPs. 

Do these, and the future will be yours :-) 

In the Multisensory Experience Lab we investigate the combination of different input and output modalities in interactive applications. We are interested in both development of novel hardware and software technologies, as well as evaluation of user experience. We apply our technologies in a variety of areas such as health, rehabilitation, education, art and entertainment. We are particularly interested in researching topics related to sonic interaction design for multimodal environments, simulating walking experiences, sound rendering and spatialization, haptic interfaces, cinematic VR and evaluation of user experience in multimodal environments.

MEL traditionally relies on physics-based audio and haptic models for multisensory processing. Currently we focus on physics-based deep learning and differentiable programming for constructing models or estimating the model parameters. We advocate that this interpretable and explainable approach to machine learning will in time solve the fundamental problems of both deep learning and multisensory processing, by highlighting reasoning instead of mere mapping, and focusing on optimizing well-understood classical signal processing algorithms by inductive, structural biases instead of a generic black-box approach.

Watch the talk: 
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/Kr_807NNYVU?t=513" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
